                            The Case Against Grades
I was brought up in a community where grades decide the character not just as a student but as a child. If a child performs well in a school exam, he/she is an obedient, disciplined and laborious one and if not vice-versa. Not just as a child as an adult I am being constantly judged with my grade sheets among my employers and colleagues. I vividly remember my teacher’s scolding, my parent’s scolding and even worse the physical punishments me and my friends used to get just in case we failed the periodic academic tests. My dedication and efforts would not matter anything unless I can score good grades in my school held exams- class tests, terminal exams and assignments. I can say that most of my childhood was spent worrying about studying and scoring good scores so as to prove myself a responsible and good kid in a community. What I learnt or intended to learn was solely to get a good score or at least pass those tests.


“Did those tests really determine my pursuit of knowledge? Am I best at the subjects where I scored the highest grades? Did I fail a particular subject because I don’t know any know-how of that particular subject? Am I really a bad student if I am last in the grading line?”, I wonder frequently. For Instance: Social Science was a most common subject in my primary school. The core intent of the subject was to make students understand how to become a responsible citizen in a society. There were students who scored too good and those who hardly passed. How we were judged was a 3-hour exam at the end of the year where we would tackle the questions on what society is, what are our roles and so on. Did we really learn in that process, it’s a 100-percentage no. And the irony is many of the students scored good, great in fact because they were cheating as the invigilator in the exam was flexible.


In the community such as mine, learning is directly associated with how much a kid can memorize. My scores are directly proportional to how much I can memorize, and how much I can extract my mocked-up entities in the exam paper. There are popular quotes that overly emphasize the importance of grades such as “Jhundiyera Pass’, loosely translated as “You almost died of hanging but passed” and Career(above70%) score/non-career student (below 70%). There are many instances where I failed an exam not because what I did not know but because I panicked. These all benchmarks oppose the real purpose of what the educational foundations are for. Rather influencing my learning process, it created a sense of fear that always became a greatest hurdle in my learning process.


If I could just communicate with my younger self, I would console him not to worry about the exams, focus on what to learn, and freely seek the knowledge. I would not obligate myself from the creative approaches just because I would be graded lowly with my technique rather than follow a traditional-set approach. The time I feared and the time I worried not only took up valuable childhood time for my time-line but also inhibited my creativity. The recent few years after my undergraduate degree was the only time where I personally think I learnt the most. I had enormous resources and freedom of choosing my own pace, and most of all no fear of attending and passing the tests. I was able to freelance as a programmer. I prospered as an employee too in this period. I realized then I was living in complete darkness after having lived more than a quarter of my life. Sooner I realized that my life would have been far-better or at-least I would not regret.
I can not advocate more against the grading of the students. My personal academic experience had been bitter enough. My grades cannot remotely reflect me by any means. Students or any humans should have freedom to pursue the knowledge to realistically learn not to score in the exam. Alfie’s quote ‘grades function as a mechanism for controlling students rather than as a necessary or constructive way to report information about their performance’, held true to my bitter experience.


Debit Paudel
